---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc
---

# SANS SEC545 Cloud Security Simulator Setup Guide (K02)

SEC545 students can follow these instructions to build the labs in their personal AWS accounts. Doing so allows students to complete the labs after access to the SANS provisioned accounts is expired.

- AWS free tier eligible accounts are expected to cost roughly $30 USD per day for the AWS resources (including the DevOps server). Make sure you tear down the environment when you are not using it.


To limit costs, please make sure to run the **Tear Down** script (`~/code/genaiapp/destroy_lab.sh`) when you are not using the lab environment.

!!! warning "YOUR Financial Responsibility"

    When running the Cloud Security Flight Simulator and performing the corresponding labs in your personal AWS / Azure environments, **YOU** are responsible for all costs.


## DevOps Server Deployment

### Requirements

- Details found in Course Materials Downloads "Lab Setup Instructions" guide:
    - Firefox + [SmartProxy (by Salar K)](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/smartproxy/){:target="_blank"}
    - SANS Cloud Security [CA Certificate](https://sec545.com/ca){:target="_blank"}
- Provided by you:
    - [AWS personal account](https://aws.amazon.com/free){:target="_blank"} with administrator credentials
    - [OpenAI API Key](https://auth.openai.com/create-account){:target="_blank"}
    - [SerpAPI Key](https://serpapi.com/users/sign_up?plan=free){:target="_blank"}
    - [Terraform 1.10](https://www.terraform.io/){:target="_blank"} or later
    - [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/){:target="_blank"}
- Provided by the SEC545 instructor or OnDemand SME:
    - DevOps server AMI shared to your personal AWS account
    - Commands to set the Terraform variables and apply the template

### Step by Step Instructions

1. Configure your AWS CLI with administrator credentials for your AWS Account.

    ```bash
    aws configure
    ```

- Create a new working directory for running the Terraform deployment.

    ```bash
    mkdir ~/sec545
    cd ~/sec545
    ```

- Download the [sec545-k02.tf](./assets/sec545-k02.tf) launch template (e.g. *sec545-k02-ami.tf*) into the `~/sec545` directory.

- After sharing the AMI with your personal AWS account, the instructor or OnDemand SME will give you the commands to set the required Terraform variables and apply the template. Run those commands in the `~/sec545` directory.

- The `terraform apply` command will take a few minutes to complete. Once it is finished, you will see the following:

    - The `environment_summary` output contains the information you need to connect to the DevOps server.

    - *SmartProxy Config* - The name of the SmartProxy configuration file created by Terraform in the `~/sec545` directory.

    - *SSH + SOCKS Connect Command* - The command to connect to the DevOps server using SSH and the SOCKS proxy using the private key created by Terraform in the `~/sec545` directory.

    ```plain
    Apply complete! Resources: 16 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

    Outputs:

    environment_summary = <<EOT
      Latest AMI:  ami-06cb88e1e8c394247 - sans-sec545-k02.25.1.0
      Running AMI: ami-06cb88e1e8c394247
      Public IP:   3.15.0.118

      Local IP:          71.34.29.101
      Allow CIDR:        71.34.29.101/32

      Proxy Pass:        intensely_luckily_bursting_pelican
      SmartProxy Config: SmartProxy-enjoyed-crawdad.json

      SSH + SOCKS Connect Command

          ssh -i enjoyed-crawdad.pem -D 54640 student@3.15.0.118

    EOT
    ```

- Follow the course **Lab Setup Instructions** guide to install the DevOps server's CA certificate, configure the SmartProxy extension, and connect to the DevOps server.

## AWS student IAM User

To deploy the lab infrastructure to AWS, you need to create a new `student` IAM user. The easiest to to set permissions is by attaching the **AdministratorAccess** policy. Our recommendation is to use a permission boundary on this IAM user to restrict access to the services not used in the AWS labs. Then, create a new pair of access keys for authenticating the DevOps server to your account.

### Requirements

- Provided by you:
    - AWS personal account with administrator credentials

### Step by Step Instructions

1. Log into the [AWS Console](https://aws.amazon.com/){:target="_blank"} using your personal administrator account.

- See the [Creating an IAM user in your AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html){:target="_blank"} documentation to create a new `student` user.

- See the [Adding permissions to a user (console)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_change-permissions.html#users_change_permissions-add-console){:target="_blank"} documentation to attach the `AdministratorAccess` policy.

- See the [Managing access keys for IAM users](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html){:target="_blank"} documentation to create a new pair of access keys for the `student` user.

- Follow the **Lab 1.0 - AWS Cloud Account Setup** instructions in the electronic workbook to configure the DevOps server's AWS Command Line Interface (CLI).


## Clean Up

- When you are finished with the labs, run the **~/code/genaiapp/destroy_lab.sh** script to remove the lab infrastructure from your AWS account.

- Then use the same Terraform commands you used to create the DevOps server, except change the last command from `terraform apply` to `terraform destroy`. This will remove the DevOps server and the SmartProxy configuration file from your AWS account.

